# PyramidSolitaire
Java Program written for UNH CS416
      PROJECT REQUIREMENTS
CS 416 Program 7P – Pyramid Solitaire update
April 17, 2016

7P Goals: Implement the Auto Play functionality; make sure your code can be run in batch (with NO user
interaction of any kind) and produce results through a log mechanism.
1. The Starter Code modifications
  Normally, the starter for an assignment will compile, and will provide some useful obvious functionality.
  This is not the case for 7P, since you are building on your 7I. (Normally there is no separate starter code
  between the I and P versions of assignments.) This case is different.
  First of all, start a new directory (for 7P) on your computer, and copy your 7I files into it. Then get
  following files from ~cs416/public/7P:
     GUI.java: do not edit this file; you must replace your 7I version with this one.
     PyramidSolitaire.java: do not edit this file; you must replace your 7I version with this one.
     Game.java: do not use this file directly, since you’ve already modified much of the 7I version. Instead,
    you need to copy the “new code” sections into your current version of Game.java. There are three edits
    in the code:
      1. There is a single new import statement at the beginning of the file: import java.io.*
      2. There is the major section of about 160 lines of code at the end of the file (just before the main
        method). It starts with a full comment line with “+++++++ new code +++++++” and includes 6
        methods: setBaseDeck, writeDeck (2 versions), readDeck (2 versions), and cardsToString.
      3. In order for the starter code to work, there is one more single-line edit in the Game.replay() method.
      You may not need to make this edit in your version if you are no longer using the _pyramidCards
      variable.
  You might need to make other edits to your code, in order for the write/read of the card decks to work
  without failure. Look especially at setBaseDeck. That is one piece of the new code that may need edits on
  your part. Make sure you have a working version of your code before adding this code. Then make sure that
  your code works after using the “Read deck” button. There are a few card files in public/7P that you should be
  able to read into your program and have them work exactly as if you had used the ones from the GUI.
2. Logging input and output
  To test your programs at least semi-automatically, we need you to generate output describing your starting
  card deck, and your end game state. Those need to be of a very specific format, so that is best done by our code:
  the log method of PyramidSolitaire. This is a static method, so you only need to know the class name
  (PyramidSolitaire) in order to invoke it:
  PyramidSolitaire.log( String title, Iterable<Card> deck )
  You should call this method three times:
   PyramidSolitaire.log("Starting deck", _baseDeck): before the cards are dealt into the pyramid.
   PyramidSolitaire.log("Draw pile", _drawPile): after the game is over.
   PyramidSolitaire.log("Play pile", _discards): after the game is over.
CS 416 7P 7P 7P
You can run PyramidSolitaire from the command line (or the InteractionsPanel) as shown below:
java PyramidSolitaire deck-s0n0.txt 5
The first argument is a card deck file; the second is the desired depth of the pyramid (number of rows). When
executed in this way, no graphical output is generated and the information reported to the
PyramidSolitare.log method is written to the file pyramid.log. Otherwise the logging information is written to
System.out. This is how we will test your program. You need to verify, before you submit, that your
program behaves in this way.
3. Sample data files
  There are a number of sample data files in ~cs416/public/7P. Some of these are “deck” files representing the
  kinds of input we will use to test your program. Hopefully, you will be able to load these into your program
  using the “Read Deck” button without any edits to your program. However, as shown by the “new code” edit 3.
  above, there may be some minor “cleaning” up you need to do with this change in your card deck that you
  didn’t need when pressing “New game” – or was done somewhere else in the “New game” execution pathway.
     deck-s0n0.txt – is the same deck that you should get as the first deck with seed 0.
     deck-s0n1.txt – is the deck you get from seed 0, after 1 press of “New Game”.
     deck-s0n2.txt – is the deck you get from seed 0, after 2 presses of “New Game”.
     log-s0n0d4.txt – log file resulting from running the s0n0 deck with a depth of 4.
     log-s0n0d5.txt – log file resulting from running the s0n0 deck with a depth of 5.
     log-s0n0d7.txt – log file resulting from running the s0n0 deck with a depth of 7.
4. Autoplay functionality
  The principal additional functionality for 7P over 7I is the implementation of the AutoPlay and Play All
  features.
    AutoPlay button: Should cause exactly one card to be moved – either a move from the pyramid to the
  discard (also called play) pile, or draw from the draw pile. Your program must follow the rules of play:
    1. If you can play from the pyramid (a move), you must do that instead of a draw.
    2. If there is more than one legal move, you must first choose a card from the lowest row possible and if
  there is more than one choice on that row, you must choose the leftmost playable card.
    Play All button: Play the game to the end with no graphical update until the end. Print a message to
  System.out indicating win/loss and how many cards are left in the draw pile (win) or in the pyramid (loss).
5. Read/Write Deck buttons
  The WriteDeck button is fully implemented, but you don’t need to use it – it was the easiest way for me to
  generate data. You also don’t need to use the ReadDeck button since you can test that by running from the
  command line, but it will be easier, especially in the beginning, to try different card configurations by reading
  them with the Read Deck button; that is the first step in verifying that we’ll be able to grade your program.
  Notes
    1. Download the new revised starter classes for this program from the public/7P directory of cs416 on
    agate.cs.unh.edu or browse to http://cs.unh.edu/~cs416/public/7P.
    2. Search in the revised Game.java for “new code” to see what you need to copy into your version of that class.
    3. Do not include any user interaction in your code.
    4. You should have exactly 3 calls to PyramidSolitaire.log: in setBaseDeck to log your a) starting deck, and at
    the end of the game to log b) the draw pile and c) the play pile.
    5. Make sure your processing of the sample data card files matches the associated sample output.
    6. To make absolutely sure that your code satisfies the batch requirements, you should use a terminal window in
    which you ssh to agate without using either –X or –Y options. Then compile your code and execute with:
    java -Djava.awt.headless=true PyramidSolitaire deck-s0n0.txt 6
    Of course, the choice of deck and level is arbitrary. This tells awt that you don’t actually want to display
    anything. This does not work for some awt functionality (especially Frame and JFrame), but the main
    method of PyramidSolitaire bypasses JFrame creation if arguments are given on the command line.
    CS 416 7P 7P 7P
7. Pay attention to style; style will be graded for 7P.
    Final Submission (7P) (Tentative distribution):
      20 The Pyramid functionality of 7I. (Undo is not required for 7P.)
      60 Autoplay functionality based on the specified processing order.
      20 Proper handling of all batch mode requirements.
    Submit only Statement.txt, Game.java, Pyramid.java, PyramidNode.java, and any new classes you define.
    You must submit all 3 pre-defined classes even if you do not change them.
